We're taping.
How do we pronounce your... Nunez, because I don't use the tilde.
However, when Spanish-speaking people say Nunez, I don't correct them because that is the Latinas and Spanish-speaking Nunez-Asian.
I guess my first question, and it seems like we're not really discussing the book itself, because that's my job to read it.
But, you know, obviously I'm interested in some of the biography and the work stuff, you know.
I guess I wonder, clearly this could have been a memoir as easily, not as easily, but the decision could have been to write a memoir and not a novel.
And maybe if you could just talk to me about what motivated you to pursue a novel as opposed to a non-fictional account.
Well, I wanted the freedom that you have when you're writing fiction that you really don't have when you're writing nonfiction.
For example, there are large parts of my parents' stories, for example, that I don't know, particularly my father's.
And I wasn't so much interested in doing research or getting the historical facts straight.
I was interested in trying to imagine certain things.
For example, there is a part in the second section of the book called Krista, in which Krista is making her, after the fall of the Nazis, making her way back from her boarding school to her home, which is a four-day walk.
And my mother, this is something that, you know, is based on an event that happened to my mother.
She was there at that time.
She was in school.
She did have to walk home.
And she had a few details about it, but her memory of it was not very good.
It happened a long time ago, and memory is, you know, not the most reliable thing.
But I was very interested in that, and I write many pages of that, imagining what that walk home was like, and what went on in her head, and even what kind of bodily sensations she had.
I mean, there are some non-fiction writers that will simply do that, even the famous people like Ted Kennedy, and say, you know, put thoughts in that person's head in rooms and places where nobody could possibly know what really
Sure.
And that was one of the reasons why I wanted to write it as a novel instead of a memoir.
The freedom to invent, I guess.
The freedom to invent and to change things and to imagine things.
And also, Lewis Begley was asked this question a lot after he wrote Wartime Lies, and he had this great line,
which was, there are some doors that cannot be opened by turning the lock, their opening must be conjured, which is what, and he said that he could not have written that book without the intercession of its form, which was the form of a novel.
I knew, too, that there are things that are, you know, there are deep things that are not accessible
or so accessible without the use of the imagination.
I had a woman come up to me after a reading and say, I would love to write about my own life, but I don't remember.
I'm only 25 years old, and I don't remember anything.
And I said, well, if you started writing, all kinds of things would come back to you.
And she said, I just feel if I did that, I would start inventing.
And I said, yeah, that's how novels are born.
It comes naturally.
You know, there's just material that won't, for whatever reason, I don't really understand why, but there are just certain truths that don't heal themselves so easily unless you use your imagination.
There certainly had to be, I mean, there are some painful things that you write about.
Did you feel that, were there any reticence at all about closing yourself
It was painful in that sense, but I didn't think about it while I was writing it.
I didn't know how far I was going to go.
I didn't know even that I was going to finish it.
You don't really know these things.
I didn't know what I was going to write about next.
As I wrote this, I didn't know that it was going to be published, really.
I mean, a lot of books aren't.
You know, I didn't have a contract for it, for example.
You know, it's just that I didn't even have an agent at the time.
I didn't really think about it.
I just wrote it.
I guess I knew that if I started thinking about that, that was going to restrict me in all kinds of ways.
Did you sell it as a finished book?
Mm-hmm.
So it wasn't even on the basis of a couple of the chapters?
No, except that the first part had been published in a small literary journal, and so had part of the second, in fact, as I was writing it.
But, no, it was finished.
And did those portions remain in the book as they appeared in the literary magazines?
Pretty much, yeah.
I imagine writing a work like this does involve constantly
Rewriting.
Rewriting and rethinking even.
You said a long time?
How long did you work on that book?
Well, I think it took about two years.
There's about two years of writing in the book, but I did that over a four-year period because I wrote the first section and then I stopped and I wrote some stories, one or two stories, and then I wrote the second section.
And then I thought of the possibility of just trying to sell that.
It was about 100 pages, just the first part and the second part.
And I worked on something else.
I took breaks.
This book made it easier for me to do that as a writer because it is four parts.
One critic suggested maybe it's four stories.
Do you agree with that, of course?
Not to forget about that, but a series of short... Well, yeah, it could be, I mean, it could be four separate parts.
I mean, they could be published... Independently.
...separately with some changes.
Perhaps not the last part.
But it is four separate parts.
It's not a traditional novel form by any means.
Now you're working on another novel, I understand.
Yeah, yeah.
Does this also involve autobiographical material?
No, it doesn't.
So would you say that this is, how often do they tell you that the first novel was not only the one you have to deal with and, I hate to say, get out of your system?
But it seems to be true, doesn't it?
It does seem to be true of a lot of writers.
Is there an element of exorcism here?
I think there might be.
I think that it was a, I hate to use this word in connection with writing, but sure, it was a therapeutic experience.
I was dealing with things that had been troubling me and obsessing me in my own life, and I dealt with them in a certain way in this book, and I did feel that I laid some ghosts to rest.
You could have been on the panel yesterday afternoon at the NBCC.
I mean, they had five authors, Linda Grace Sexton, they had Ben Cheever, Michael Gilmore, Scott Peck, not M. Scott Peck, but a gay guy that had abusive... The whole theme here was writing, you know, a spy in the house, writing about... Every one of them,
I mean, dealing with this stuff, and there were questions about the propriety of writing, about, you know, did they feel have any misgivings about writing?
Did you have any misgivings about writing about your family, for instance?
Um, well... And this is just coincidental, but this thing, this seminar that went on for about two hours yesterday, and it actually got a little tedious after a while,
It was interesting that there are elements here.
Well, I had, as I said, I tried not to think about that when I was writing, and I did have a sense when I was writing, or should I say, I never had a sense that I was doing a wrong thing.
I felt that I was doing something difficult, something painful.
But necessary.
Necessary for me.
And there was something so natural feeling and right feeling when I was working on it that I didn't really feel torn.
I felt like I was doing something that I had to do and that was working on its own terms.
I felt like the book
uh was was working and that that was the main thing in the front of my mind i mean i if i had misgivings i i didn't spend a lot of time on them i i just wanted to to get the work done and and i had these goals i wanted this to be as interesting and as beautiful as i could make it and i i'm not in therapy i've really never been in therapy except
by accident, which is a long story.
And I really didn't.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
I just thought it was interesting that you said that, that all four people.
Somebody from the audience asked that question, and it was amazing.
It wasn't amazing, yeah.
Of course, yeah.
Michael Dolmore had been in therapy for 20 years.
I know.
This young kid, he said, well, all right, I'm just starting now.
I mean, it was amazing, and they were talking about
I guess they all felt that they profited from it.
Oh, I think so.
Well, most people I know have been in therapy.
That's why I actually mention it, because it's unusual.
I mean, there does seem to be some pathology here.
That's what I mean.
Exactly.
I mean, if it were a shrink looking at it, the shrink, of course, would say, well, you need therapy.
The shrink would say that to everybody.
I mean, you really have some difficult things to work with here.
Absolutely.
Well, that's why I bring it up, because I think it's interesting that I'm not, I'm against therapy.
I'm one of those people who actually don't believe in it, and I'm not interested in it.
Great.
I agree.
It's unusual.
I mean, most of my friends... Well, I think you've worked through your own... Of course, there's a question here about maybe something else.
could have helped some of these characters make the right choice.
Exactly.
Because there were a lot of really stupid choices being made by people.
Bad choices is probably the better word.
Bad choices.
Bad choices, but I mean, that's a theme in the book.
I feel that, to some extent, some of these choices, there was no choice.
That's a point where I talk about... That's almost an oxymoron, isn't it?
A choice almost means...
Right.
Having the option to select various courses.
I guess there's a part when I'm talking about the narrator talks about Christa, her mother, imagining her after the fall of Germany, and then meeting Chang and so on, and getting pregnant, and then ending up in a Brooklyn housing project.
She's been a divorced one, though.
She could have divorced him, but she couldn't.
But the thing is that, you know, she was very, very young.
She was still a teenager.
She was a young woman, too, in fact.
In her 40s, yeah.
But she was a teenager at the time.
That's young.
Younger than I am.
I'm sorry, go ahead.
No, I was just saying that there's a part where the narrator says a family more incurred
chosen, for there had been no choice.
I wonder if, as opposed to, I have here, lost and missed opportunities, whether or not it's a choice or a missed opportunity, I wonder if it's almost the same thing.
Yeah, I guess I'm curious about how, I'm probably more likely to see that there are, that people have fewer choices than some people might think.
I'm interested in that because I grew up in a housing project when
Although there were all kinds of problems, there was a point in my life.
And tell me where the housing project was.
Oh, it was on Staten Island.
People keep saying in interviews and places that I was raised in Brooklyn and I was not.
I was raised in Staten Island.
Why do they say that?
It's in the book, and everybody assumes that everything in the book is reality.
So I just read about that housing project, the Mariners Harbor Houses, and that, you know, now it's terrible.
I always take a book for what it is.
I mean, it would not occur to me that
Everything in the book is... Well, it's ridiculous, I mean, because you are inventing things.
Exactly.
Yeah, it's caused a lot of confusion in front of me.
I hate assumptions, to assume that you were a book.
Right.
I think you should know where it is.
Exactly.
Put it in print.
You're going to be plagued with this now for years to come.
I'm sorry to say.
It's true.
No, I know it's true.
I think Charlotte said, history repeats itself, but historians repeat one another.
Very good.
Well, in this question of choices, as I said, growing up in the project, at a certain point in my young life, I felt as if I were someone who was
being showered with opportunities.
I mean, there were progressive programs in school.
You know, there was money to be had to go to an Ivy League college.
And it wasn't like I had to kill myself to go find these opportunities.
My advisors and my teachers told me about them, arranged them for me, helped me.
I think about this now.
If I had been born 10, 15, 20 years later and been in one of these housing projects, I mean, what choices would I have?
I don't know that these people have... Well, they certainly don't have the choices I had.
I mean, because if you're born into a situation where you have to sleep under the bed because there's so much gunfire,
and where the drug problem is what it is, and so on.
I mean, you don't have, that's not what I had.
I mean, I was just in a housing project.
There was still some dignity to be had.
And incidentally, Staten Island, even today, I just read a piece of the Times, well, there is, guess what, there's a little crime out in Staten Island now, but even then, it's still by far the safest of all the boroughs.
Right.
I'm sure that when you were a child, it was,
that much safer still.
Yeah, I mean, things happen, but I, nothing like it.
I mean, I had the situation where I had friends from school whose parents would not allow them to visit me because they were afraid.
But that was more fear than reality.
Now, of course, it would be reality.
So that's just on this question of choices.
You know, all these people are going to the projects, making movies and writing books like Coop Dreams and so on.
as if that were the only kind of dreams in the project, to play basketball.
I mean, there are people there who would like to write and do other things and become historians or scientists or something, but will they ever have anything like that opportunity?
I don't know anymore.
It looks like not.
It's terrifying.
Now you're working on a second book.
Is this being narrated just out of curiosity?
Does it have a narrator?
This has a third.
This book, the second book, is more traditional than this in form.
It's in the third person.
So it has a third-person narrator and a cast of characters not based on myself or my family.
So this should be the challenge in terms of establishing a voice for you.
Yeah, I think that... This voice must be your voice here.
It's completely different, you know, because... I mean, is this voice, that's an assumption I'm making, the voice in this book is... I think it is.
Again, I didn't think about that when I was writing.
I have gotten letters from people whom I have been out of touch with for a very long time who were...
startled to come across the book and read it and recognize my voice.
They did recognize you.
Yes, they did.
And other people have said that, too.
I'm not sure what that means, because it's obviously not my speaking voice.
If it's my literary voice, it shouldn't really, it wouldn't necessarily change just because you went from a first-person narrator to a third-person narrator.
Yeah, but I think that, you know, you're the person who, this is your creative process, not mine, and I'm just
try to get a glimpse of it, but when you were writing this book, I mean, did this person assume her own voice for you?
How did you move outside yourself, I wonder?
Or did you?
I did.
There is, I mean, when you read the book, you can see a distance, a distance that the writer has from the narrator.
Part of that is that the narrator is someone who's looking back, too.
But I myself am very curious about that, whether if someone were to pick up the second book without seeing a name, if they would recognize, if they would, or both of these books, if they would compare and say, yes, I do believe these books were written by the same person.
For example, you pick anything.
by Virginia Woolf or her memoir.
Can I just give you a second?
It's a cute story.
I did an interview with Doris Lessing here in New York, and she wrote a couple of books under another name.
In fact, this house, I guess, was HarperCollins, and just to see, to see how it would, first of all, it could be sold without, I mean, she scrupulously kept her anonymity, and it was published, and went out, and I forget the name of the author,
But to read the reviews, she says, one person finally said, reads like a young Doris Lessing.
That's wonderful.
That was great.
That's good.
But one person picked it up, you know.
Well, it's interesting, because I guess it depends on how strong or distinctive the literary voice is, because if you picked up any piece of fiction or nonfiction, memoir, letter, et cetera, you'd recognize Virginia Woolf.
I think so.
You will recognize that.
I guess it's not true of everybody who certainly recognized a priest anywhere, I think.
So it wouldn't... Maybe for the French there might be a different story.
So I don't know if... That's why I said I'm not sure if the voice is so different in this second, more traditional, third-person narrated book than this.
It may be very much the same voice.
When you envisioned the novel, was it a novel about people or about experiences that you first... This novel?
Yes.
It was largely about observation, really.
Because, I mean, that's, you know, this is not a plot-driven novel.
This is a novel about an eye, capital I, as well as E-Y-E.
You know, somebody looking back,
at this childhood and hearing stories about other people's lives and interpreting them or getting them down.
So I really see it as a narrator who is seeing things and getting them down.
More than a story of her experiences.
A couple of reviews of these novels, I don't know if they're classified as any kind of a genre, but the immigrant story, how do you feel about it being perceived in that sense of a stereotype?
Well, I think it is, to some extent, I mean, there are three characters.
All of them are immigrants.
That's quite a disparate.
Exactly.
experiences are immigrant experiences so um you know of course people are going to to um to point to that but i i don't think of it as an immigrant novel i mean i guess partly because the the narrator is not an immigrant um and um you know i see it more as a as a book that deals with themes of nostalgia and loss and memory which are
and when he wrote about it, he wasn't talking about immigrants at all.
It was about loss.
James Merrill, who just died, the great poet of love and loss.
He's been called everywhere.
He's not an immigrant.
These are themes that are related to the immigrant experience, but are actually universal experience.
I think it's very important to point out that an American
That's one of the great duties of American literature is that there are so many different aspects and voices and experiences to write about.
The question of language is important, too, and, of course, it's an immigrant novel in that sense that one of the themes is coming from a different language.
also a meditation on the power of art, isn't it?
Yes.
Might talk a little bit about that.
Of course, you know, and which feeds us into the title piece, too, you know.
Mm-hmm.
Well, yeah.
Just take it anywhere you want, I'm sure.
Well, one of the most important things about the narrator is
And what we learn about her in the book is how important reading was to her and how she used books.
She talks about the books that were given to her by her mother, first fairy tales and then Greek myths, and how she found a whole world there and how much her reading formed her character.
Then at a certain point, she decides to study ballet.
And, I mean, that's a whole section of the book.
Is this true ballet?
I've studied ballet enough to write about it, but it wasn't just, I mean, it wasn't that big of a... Well, it was, but just for a little while.
And certainly I didn't have any possibility of a career there.
But she, in the beginning of that section, she talks about being...
so passionate about it.
And she says, well, now I can describe exactly what it was that was happening to me.
I had discovered a way of being out of the world and being, as she calls it, the miraculous possibility that art holds out to us to be a part of the world and to be removed from the world at the same time.
And recently I was looking at a letter to
Flannery O'Connor that I'd read a long time ago, and they came out, and I had marked a place there I saw where she said in a letter, I never feel more, this is a very rough paraphrase, I never feel more like myself when I'm writing, and I never feel more removed from myself when I'm writing.
And that's saying the same thing, and then I came across a Goethe quote that said,
The safest way to be in the world.
Art is the safest way to be in the world and out of the world at the same time.
So these are all the same idea.
And that's something that's very important to the narrator.
That is what being passionate about ballet and being a dancer studying the discipline and the involvement does for her.
So, yeah, that, the consolation of art, the, the, I know, it's just of hard work as well.
Were you tempted at all to give her a name, or are you more comfortable with her?
Well, that's actually, that's an interesting thing, because I never, that's something else I didn't think about.
I started writing with the, with the I in the first person, and there are actually a lot of first person books wherein the narrator is not named, and maybe for the same reason as what happened to me.
I finished writing and had never named her.
There had never come a place in the book where somebody said, hey, you, you know what I mean?
Or where there was any natural place to insert a name.
And then when it was finished and I realized that she didn't have a name, it didn't bother me.
I didn't want to go back and find a place because, of course, I only would have found, I mean, just to insert it one time, the reader probably would have forgotten the name.
Yeah, exactly, exactly.
What's the name of Hamlet's father?
Exactly.
What is the name of the narrator in A Feather on the Breath of God?
So the point is that we really shouldn't draw anything from it.
No, it's just the way it happens.
And then it didn't bother me and I didn't want to go back and plant it.
I thought there might have been some... Right.
But no, I didn't plan it.
Let's see.
As you said, you have done some, quite a few short stories.
In which form?
I mean, is your next novel going to be a longer novel, do you think?
It is going to be longer.
It's going to be at least 300 pages, at least 100 pages longer than that.
Book pages, is it?
Well, I'm not sure.
No.
Both.
It's already, I was about halfway through with it.
And it's already, you know, almost as long as this now.
There's a line, a household where hate predominates.
I don't know where I pulled that from.
I don't remember either.
That was in one of the reviews.
Did you see that?
I think, you know, I have a funny thing about the reviews.
they make me very nervous.
I mean, even when they're good, they're often full of mistakes and misquote.
It doesn't bother me as much as I thought it would, but it's a problem.
It's a problem with me, too, I think.
Yeah, so particularly when they misquote you, the writer.
So what I do is I tend to read them like this, nervously, like as if I were expecting bad news.
I think that's misreading the book, honestly.
I do, too.
So what I do is I... I don't really like to talk about other...
the reviewers have to say, but it is... I thought it was a misreading, and also that's interesting because when I did a radio interview with Lenny Lopate, the last thing he said to me was, this is a very, which has also been said, this is a very loving book, a book written with a lot of love, and I'm just wondering, he said, isn't honesty a higher virtue than...
forgiveness which is an interesting question for which i didn't really have much of an answer but but you thought about it well i don't i don't think i don't know what it means in in connection with the book it didn't seem to me he was talking about the book i don't i mean i yeah so so the point is that that um yeah a household where hate predominated it's it's too it's
It jumped out at me.
It was up towards the lead of the review, too, I think.
Yeah, I wouldn't say that that was accurate.
Good.
Why did you say that?
Was your childhood an unhappy childhood?
I don't think I would characterize it as unhappy.
It was troubled.
It depends on whether I'm comparing it to other people's childhood.
I was not a depressed child.
I was pretty outgoing, and I loved things.
You know, I was interested in things.
I had little friends.
I liked adults.
I liked children.
I was troubled, and I think that that was clear to anybody.
In fact, I know it was.
It shows up on school reports.
I worried people.
Did you look up your own school reports?
I haven't.
I don't have them with me, but I remember them.
And I know that people were concerned about me.
But there was so much, I mean, I had a great deal of curiosity about the world and a lot that I wanted to do.
I wasn't withdrawn, and I think that that's the difference.
You know, there's nothing worse than that depressed, withdrawn child who then grows up and remembers a child that is this
endless nightmare, because there's nothing to relieve it, whereas I got involved in such.
This one kid was saying how he ran across a photograph of his mother and his aunt, and they were married to brothers, and you remember the two of them when he was a kid talking about how they were both beaten up, you know, at the same time, and comparing wounds and scars, you know, and a little small look at this one, look at that one.
It was a bizarre kind of a thing.
his recollection of this.
Like Michael Gilmour.
Exactly, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, there's so much that you hear about, it's worse.
He said, whoever said the truth shall set you free.
He said, God wrong.
And the truth does not set you free.
It was a very interesting quote that he made, you know.
Yeah.
Oh, absolutely.
Yeah, I remember reading a
Well, reading reviews of the book.
Yeah.
No, I think it's... It's good, because it wasn't... And yours, and I think we can say the same thing about your book.
Of course, his is a memoir, and yours is a novel.
But it's not exploitive.
I mean, it's not... You're not exploiting anything for the... No, no.
You're using it to produce it.
Well, I think that's what I meant before when I said that I wasn't...
I didn't have those kinds of misgivings when I was writing, that I was doing something wrong.
I guess if I had felt that I was doing something exploitive.
But I was sure that I wasn't.
But I don't remember what your last question was or where we were.
Well, you mentioned that you read voraciously as a child, I guess.
I've written a book about the passion for books, by the coming out of some book madness.
I'm always interested to hear about people who are passionate about books at a young age.
Do I assume that this probably led to your becoming or deciding to be a writer of fiction?
I think so, because I wanted to...
This is what I mean about opportunities.
When I was only in sixth grade, on my way to junior high school, at Public School 44 in Staten Island, which was a poor public school, we had a real graduation, and everybody dressed up and so on, and we got awards.
Somebody went and had little trophies made up, math awards, history awards, you know, these things that, of course, you have in high school, medals or whatever.
And I can still remember everything.
There was a major event this graduation.
I remember it very well.
I remember what I was wearing.
I remember the fact that I woke up at the crack of dawn out of excitement, looking forward to this.
I mean, do they even do these things anymore for children?
And I got the Creative Writing Award.
Oh, that's great.
Yeah.
But I mean, in the project.
I mean, did anything like this happen in the project?
So if I got this little Creative Writing Award... Oh, I forget when I go to school.
I think...
This little creative writing shows that I was already, I mean, that was already something that I was doing, and it had to have been in imitation.
I mean, you don't just do creative writing as a fifth or fourth grader or whatever without copying some creative writing that your teacher or parents are giving you.
So I guess I was...
I was like, I can remember, in fact, I don't guess, but I was a, I thought of myself as a children's book writer.
And I received another award.
I did, I remember that I was writing for children.
That's what, my idea was that I would be a writer for children.
And when I received another award, the principal had written on slide inside for our own doctor's suit.
See, these things mean so much.
They really, really mean everything.
See, and I remember those so much that I don't remember, but this I do.
So that tells me that I must have been writing, reading and loving Dr. Seuss, which I remember, and then writing my own Seussian, which I would still love to do.
Children's work.
I love children.
Particularly along the lines of Dr. Seuss.
It seems like great zany fun to me.
I love children.
So my wife and I actually had hundreds of them before we even had kids.
Yeah, they're wonderful.
I mean, we have some wonderful, like Natalie Babbitt and some wonderful writers.
So I think that's the way I thought of myself.
When I got older, I thought of myself as a different kind of writer.
But even, you know, I did take the ballet break there.
It was a period of time where that was all I was interested in.
But I was so old already in high school for a dancer, so old.
So, you know, and then when I got to junior high school, high school, I was writing.
And in college, I majored in English, but I studied writing there.
Which one?
Barnard.
And then I went to the Columbia School of the Arts for my M.S.A.
So, yeah, I mean, I thought it was just been pretty clear to me.
You worked at the New York University?
I worked at the Review.
I was Robert Silver's secretary.
Editorial assistant, I suppose, is what everybody calls it.
Nobody says secretary anymore, but that's what I was.
I was one of his secretaries for a couple of years in the 70s, before and right out of college, and then off and on when I was in graduate school.
Yeah, it was actually my first job out of college, working at the Reviews.
I don't know if you're going to be a writer or not.
Yeah, really, it was so much going on.
to absorb things, I guess, and pick up the ambiance, and I guess Elizabeth Hardwick was kind of a... she encouraged you, right?
Yeah, well, she got me the job.
I mean, she was my teacher at Barnett at the end, and I said, well, I'm going out to find a job, and she suggested that I call Whitney Ellsworth, the publisher, and they didn't have anything of that kind, but then someone left, and I took her play.
But one of the things about the review is that I learned about all kinds of writers that I'd never come across in college.
I mean, very well-known writers, people who write regularly for the journal.
Okay.
I think we've cut a lot of ground, by the way.
I mean, you definitely would not want to be Catholic.
Somebody says, I think maybe there was even an interview with you, in fact, with Stan Cryer, but somebody suggested that you were an ethnic writer, or that you were, did you see that?
Oh, yeah, they, yeah, I mean, I don't think of myself as an ethnic writer if, I mean, yeah, I don't.
And I also don't identify myself the way other people do.
I mean, if both of my parents had been Chinese, yeah, I would think of myself as a Chinese-American.
I mean, if I spoke that language, if they spoke that language, and... Yeah, I mean, it's... Yeah, and so is Amy Tan, and... But that's impossible for me.
Now, I'm certainly not going to think of myself as a German-American writer.
That's out of the question, and I'm not a Latino, Latina writer.
So, the one thing in the...
was that I had said something about how these things, maybe for me, they cancel each other out.
So I don't think of myself as an ethnic writer.
I don't really think of myself as an ethnic person, but other people do, and that's understandable.
You know, this kind of mix, it doesn't work the same way.
Bohorti Muguchi.
I interviewed her for about a year and a half.
Wonderful.
Interesting.
And she's gone through an interesting kind of a, she was a perfect choice, I thought.
If I were reciting that book, you know, and I had the ability to, you know, I'd always say she'd be perfect for this book.
Interesting.
And she, in my interview with her, was very adamant, I'm an American writer.
Yeah.
Please don't call me this or that.
But I said, well, can you publish her then, not to put out the photograph of you wearing the saris, you know what?
That's a little misleading.
Have you seen the picture?
That's a very, very good answer.
Well, in fact, I have to say, though, I don't think it was fair that somebody interviewed me, and I said this, well, I don't think of myself as an ethnic writer, and she said, well, then why is your publisher promoting you that way?
And I said, oh, I don't think that's fair.
I don't think they are, really.
Well, they do make the character with Amy Tan, though.
I have to say, in one of their press releases, they do
You know, if they make a comparison, they do make an Amy Tan comparison.
Right.
But, you know, but publishers are famous for that.
And I felt that it was a little bit unfair of her.
I wouldn't say that HarperCollins has been promoting me.
They've been promoting me as a first novelist, if anything.
Which is great, in a way, because one of the things that came out yesterday, even like Gail Colbo of The Globe, you know, what things do you review and not review?
And she said, well,
we really have a mission to do first novels, because if we don't do it, who is?
Right.
It's true.
And I'm so, I love Gail anyway.
It's kind of a, it's a great position to have.
It is.
You have to.
It's easy to review somebody when they become, uh, Anne Tyler.
Anne Tyler is Anne Tyler.
Yeah.
But, boy, it's that first book that needs the attention, uh, I think.
Absolutely.
Because why would anyone buy it?
I mean, it's, it's,
It's hard enough to sell first novels in hardcover.
I remember I was at a seminar in Cambridge.
I guess it's important that it's Cambridge.
You know, it's a place where every book thing is up there.
And somebody was saying, you know, publishing a first novel.
Yeah, well, let me see.
How many people bought a first novel in hardcover last year?
Of course, the whole room put up.
Oh, my God, I forgot it was in Cambridge.
But you're absolutely right.
People don't.
They don't.
They don't want to take that chance.
Unless a great review appears, somebody they trust tells them about it, sometimes as gifts you'll receive a first novel, but it's true.
It's very hard.
For me, it's so exciting to discover.
Well, that was a nice thing for me.
I was up in Chester, Vermont, which the Boston Globe kind of was the first novel.
Yeah, I thought it was the Jeffrey Stokes piece or something.
Yeah, and there were 14 of us, all first novels, including Christopher Lamb and Hout, because that's his first novel.
He did do a book, a baseball book, a couple of years ago.
Right, and Joe DiMaggio.
Yeah.
So there were all these people who, this was their first book, and it was quite a range, and we all read, and we did
There were 200 people at each of these readings in this little town.
Isn't that great?
Mm-hmm.
Did you ask me about the title?
You had mentioned that?
No, no, I know the title.
Right, right, right.
Actually, at Ferris, I wasn't really so sure about this title, because it had the word God in it, I mean, capital G, God.
Well, I'll tell you, just, you know, picking it up,
What is it?
If it is, you do have to ask yourself, what have we got here?
Right.
What does that mean?
But I was very happy when I found this, and I was very happy to have that.
I love Joseph Cornell anyway.
It's very nice.
I'm going to ask you to inscribe it for me.
Oh, yeah.
Sure.
And your paper score is set.